[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as the leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
to help you be a better b2b marketer
never miss an episode by subscribing on
Apple podcasts now let's get started
hello everyone
last week I share with you that I roll a
little ebook about artificial
intelligence and that you can purchase
on Amazon Kindle just in case you missed
last week's podcast and the name of the
book is called the modern AI marketer
how to leverage artificial intelligence
in digital marketing the book was
written for marketers to understand what
AI is and how marketers can apply it in
the work they do like I said last week
modern marketing is grounded on using
technology to reach out to your audience
digitally you can't scale segment or
personalize your marketing without
technology and that's why technology
plays such a critical role in marketing
and in this ebook I touch on many things
from definition of AI a bit of history
benefit and use cases to expectation
that you need to set if you implement AI
so for this podcast I want to pique your
interest on the marketing specific
benefits of AI so when people talk about
AI benefits they tend to mention the AI
benefit in a very generic terms for
example AI can enhance data analysis
alright I offer recommendation and
predictions and I probably can automate
to your repetitive tasks that sounds
great but what are the marketing
specific benefits using AI well they are
three from my perspective the first one
is gain a deeper understanding of your
customers so you have a large data set
on how customers engage your website if
you want to learn what types of content
people usually read before they contact
your sales team on the website you can
build a model by feeding your existing
data set and see the recommendations
from AI
of course you can compare your findings
with your gut or account specific data
to understand the differences and the
similarities between a is recommendation
and your own recommendation using that
information to refine your content
editorials in addition to keyword
optimization the second benefit that's
specifically for marketing is
personalized engagement with digital
obviously everything we do is tracked
we are completely trapped so you can
actually use a third party AI base tools
you know there are a lot of software
with machine learning or deep learning
capabilities that I've built into it
marketers can know exactly what
customers are doing in real time there
are third-party tools which can analyze
customers post an online conversation to
help marketers understand your
sentiments desire needs or even pains
I mentioned Ellis in the past Ellis is
an AI based gifting platform which can
crawl your target audience is social
profile and come up with specific gift
recommendations that you can send to get
their attention right so a lot of stuff
that we're moving forward in order to
scale personalized and segment you need
technology to help you out and AI is one
of the technologies the third benefit is
to improve the customer experience
through journey mapping we do a/b
testing use he Maps or even focus group
testing to gather information so that we
can understand our customers better and
improve their customer experience what
if we can build an AI model by working
with your internal data team or work
with the data analytics vendor to
analyze customer journeys this obviously
will require you to integrate your album
marketing campaigns to your website
analytics and more and I understand
Google Analytics and various their party
tools are doing that however you need to
take the data further by merging with
Ala data sets and also external data to
understand say the time lapse from the
first visit to the most recent visit on
the website and the type of content or
pages consume the product demo views
line etc or the sales email exchanges to
see the customer journey by industries
or by persona then you can use the
information to optimize the touch point
and maybe use the data to predict or
anticipate what the customer will do in
the future so here's a quick takeaway
I'm not here to tell you how to build
your AI model or you need to do that to
really look into AI - in terms of how a
I can help you the key is to know what
questions you want to ask and then find
a solution or build a model to answer
your questions does that make sense but
I'm sure you can also use other
approaches to get the answers as well
right so here's a list of questions for
you to think about building an AI model
so based on our account history and the
payment transaction data why do the top
25 new accounts look like what is the
average transaction size how does that
compare with sales on top 25 countless
are they similar or different and why
okay so that's one question and then a
loved one can be with our existing Lea
scoring what minimal score do prospects
usually reach in order to get them to
request a demo with that score
recommendation what is the average
success of closing a deal right and
another question I can think of is when
marketing channels drag the highest
quality MQL which is marketing qualified
leads how much money can I allocate to
that channel to see an improved rate of
return and I can also think of another
question say how many pieces of content
do prospect consume before they contact
us what are these contents what are
these content pieces different based on
the different industries or persona to
me the biggest benefits of AI for
marketers lie in personalization and
recommendations we all know how to do
mass communications but for the next era
of marketing a I host the key to
providing insights and recommendation to
do even more effective mass
customization so if you enjoy the
podcast subscribe to the show on your
favorite podcast
platform or visit my website at Pam
dinner com4 slash podcast again if you
prefer watching videos simply type him
dinner on YouTube and subscribe one new
video every week so for the time being
be well and that's talk again next week
take care bye bye if you enjoyed this
podcast please share it with your
colleagues and leave a review on Apple
podcast
[Music]